Business Problem Statement:
In recent years, City Hotel and Resort Hotel have seen high cancellation rates. Each hotel is now dealing with a number of issues as a result, including fewer revenues and less than ideal hotel room use. Consequently, lowering cancellation rates is both hotels' primary goal in order to increase their efficiency in generating revenue, and for us to offer thorough business advice to address this problem.
The analysis of hotel booking cancellations as well as other factors that have no bearing on their business and yearly revenue generation are the main topics of this report.

Assumptions
1. No unusual occurrences between 2015 and 2017 will have a substantial impact on the data used.
2. The information is still current and can be used to analyze a hotel's possible plans in an efficient manner.
3. There are no unanticipated negatives to the hotel employing any advised technique.
4. The hotels are not currently using any of the suggested solutions.

Research question:
1. What are the variables that affect hotel reservation cancellations
2. How can we make hotel reservations cancellations better
3. How will hotels be assisted in making pricing and promotional decisions

Hypothesis
1. More Cancellations occur when Prices are higher
2. When there is a longer waiting list, customers tend to cancel more frequently
3.The majority of clients are coming from offline travel agents to make their reservations.

Suggestions

1. Cancellation rates rise as the price does. In order to prevent cancellations of reservations, hotels could work on their pricing strategies and try to lower the rates for specific hotels based on locations. They can also provide some discounts to the customers.

2. As the ratio of the cancellation and non cancellation of resort hotel is higher than city hotel so hotels should provide reasonable discount on room prices on weekends.

3. In month of january hotels can start campaigns or marketing with a reasonable amount to increase their revenue as the cancellation is the highest in this month.

4. They can increase the quality of their hotels and services in Portugal to reduce cancellation rate.
